# Object Classification Degree Project
This project was an attempt at developing an object detection, classification and language translation system using modern computer vision technology and artificial intelligence. The project delivers an android application that is used to detects and classify objects in any speaking language.

This Project is based on Existing Object Detection and Classification Techniques present but Instead of Classifying the Objects into any particular Language (for e.g. English ) the Android Application Developed during this project work can classify in more than one Speaking Language i.e. English,Odia,Hindi etc. The product specified belongs to the class of object detection applications but unlike other object detecting applications emphasis was put on classifying objects according to the user’s language choice in order to get more specific results. The android application is developed using android studio. For the deep learning object classifier model the concept of transfer learning is used and the mobilenet model is further trained using tensorflow deep learning environment which is then used inside the android application. The android application processes the camera feed frame by frame which is then fed to the deep net model to get the label Text. The label text is matched with the language chosen and the translated text is then displayed in the text box. If in any case the object is wrongly classified a feedback option is provided to report errors.
Upon clicking the feedback option the frame image is saved and the image along with the correct labelled text is upload to firebase cloud storage using the firebase libraries. These images will be used for further testing.

This Project was Developed using the concept of Transfer Learning ,Tensorflow and Android Studio
